Let's talk a little bit about what we
are going to cover in this course.
The first topic we're going to
get in to is declaration merging.
When I learned about this concept,
which describes how various things
kind of stack on top of each other to
form importable and exportable symbols.
This changed the way I looked
at TypeScript forever,
it was sort of where I went from having to
memorize a bunch of special case things.
And sort of, I knew that A,
B and C happened, and
I have to remember that they will happen.
Once I learned declaration merging,
it's almost like I found the core
foundational idea that was responsible for
all of this behavior.
It's like finding a law of physics
that explains a bunch of different
observations.
So I figured to start with that because
for me it was like a mind-blowing thing,
and I think it might be for
others as well.
We'll move on then to talk about
extreme types, so, top and
bottom types, respectively,
describe types that can accept any value,
or types that can accept no value at all.
So, we'll talk about, actual top and
bottom types, which are both
present in TypeScript, as well as
almost top and almost bottom types.
So if you've ever seen the object type, or
the empty object type which is represented
by a pair of open and close braces.
We'll talk about those and we'll talk
about unit types, which are types that
can only hold exactly one value, the set
that they represent its of size one.
We will then move on to discussing
knowledge values, how do we represent
values which may or may not be present,
how do we handle those values?
What are different types we can use,
different operators we can use to handle,
things that could be absent, or things
that indicate they're empty in TypeScript.
It's important to get this right,
because this improves
the soundness of your code if you
can stick to a couple conventions.
So, it's true now, and
will be true for the next couple of
years that the JavaScript ecosystem
is moving towards Native ES modules.
You may not have seen this or
you may have, but
you can create files that
have an MJS extension now.
And I know we've all been writing for
many years JavaScript modules that use
the import keyword and the export keyword.
And it's true, we're using module syntax
there, this has been around since 2015.
The big change is that now we're
getting to a point where you can take
code that looks like that and
run it directly in a browser, or directly
in Node JS using that MJS extension or
there other ways, we'll get into that.
Because we're at this transition point,
more important now than ever,
it's like knowing how this works, right?
Knowing what you're looking at,
how to deal with this,
as JavaScript sort of moves towards
this being the way we write code and
we distribute code, right?
You'll probably run into situations where
you're dealing with legacy stuff that
doesn't do that yet, and then modern
stuff that's doing this already.
Almost certainly you're gonna have
a code base with something in your Node
modules folder that is old and
something that's very modern.
So we're gonna look at
how we can manage that,
while we're sort of, stepping up
to this new way of doing things.
So chapter 6, we're gonna pick up where
we left off in TypeScript fundamentals,
which was the last chapter we
went through was generics.
We just started introducing
this concept of a type param,
making a type that is expressed
in terms of a type parameter.
We're gonna talk about how we can
apply constraints to a type param,
which is sort of like
a minimum requirement.
So you can't just feed it any type,
you have to feed it a type
that meets the requirement.
And we'll talk about scopes, so
type parameters can have scopes just
like variables can have scopes.
That will let us start to
take on conditional types,
you can think of this as, if then or
if then else for types, or
if you wanna think of it kind
of the ternary operator.
Where you can use a condition,
question mark, expression for true,
question mark expression for false, this
is kind of what a conditional type is.
It kind of seems odd if you've
never looked at this before,
why would you need an if then for types,
but we'll look at how we can model some
things that were just not possible.
And make our types more reusable
through using this feature.
Something that's possible with
conditional types is extracting a type
parameter out of another type.
And we can do this within
the condition of the conditional
type using the infer keyword.
This lets us sort of pluck something
out of an existing type that,
we may not have access to this inner
thing that's within the outer thing,
we may only be given this outer thing.
So it's a really important concept, and
a really important language feature
that lets us transform types.
Our second last major topic
is going to be mapped types,
think of this kind of array.map but
for types,
maybe we're taking an interface.
And then we're producing another interface
with the same keys, but
different value types for
each field on class or
each property on an interface.
We're going to return to
an example that we started
in TypeScript fundamentals before,
this was a type registry,
where we were building a data layer
with a fetch record function.
And this led us,
based on arguments that we
passed to a function have
a proper return type.
We started the process of kind of solving
this problem in TypeScript fundamentals
when we were studying type queries,
specifically, indexed access types.
We were using this keyword, where we got
the the property names have an interface.
And after we cover most of
the content in this course,
we will be set up to sort
of finish the job, or
we can start to type the values
coming out of this function.
And then finally, we're gonna talk
about a really interesting concept,
it's starting to get into, type theory,
the branch of mathematics.
Don't worry, I've spent a lot of time
making this as relatable as I can make it,
but we're gonna talk about
variance over type params.
So this is covariance,
contravariance, by variance and
invariance, and
TypeScript as of I think version 4.7, so
this is kind of a new thing for TypeScript
5, or within the last few releases.
It gives us a way to state,
that we wanna operate in a covariant way,
or a contravariant way.
So we'll learn what those terms mean,
we'll learn the TypeScript syntax for
that, and I will do my best to
make this very easy to understand.
With that, let's jump in.